---
layout: page
title: Automation
---

![Automation Services]({{ '/assets/img/happy-business-owner-yes.jpg' | relative_url }})

## DO MORE OF WHAT YOU LOVE

You started your business to pursue your passion, not to get buried in
administrative tasks. Yet running a business inevitably brings with it
a host of time-consuming responsibilities that pull you away from your
core mission.

At Common Sense, we help small businesses and busy professionals
reclaim their time by streamlining or eliminating routine tasks,
allowing them to focus on the work that truly matters to them.

We work closely with our clients to identify processes that can be
partially or fully automated, creating efficient systems that reduce
the burden of day-to-day operations. Our goal is simple: to give you
back more time for the work you love.

Through strategic use of low-code automation tools and generative AI,
we create reliable solutions that enhance your productivity and
streamline your operations. And because we value long-term
partnerships, you can count on our continued support whenever you need
it.

> "Smart and reliable automation gives you more time to focus on doing what you love to do."

## OUR EXPERTISE

Since founding Common Sense in 1996, we've combined decades of
software development expertise with hands-on business management
experience to deliver practical solutions for our clients. Our unique
background includes:

### Software Engineering Excellence

With over 35 years in software development, including extensive work
in regulated industries, we understand how to build reliable,
maintainable automation solutions that stand the test of time. Many of
the automation techniques we recommend are ones we use ourselves, and
for custom solutions, we often develop and test them extensively
in-house before deployment.

### Business Process Optimization

As both consultants and business owners, we've refined countless
business processes across various industries. We don't just automate
existing workflows—we help identify and eliminate inefficiencies
first, ensuring you get the maximum benefit from automation. Our own
business serves as a testing ground for many automation strategies,
allowing us to understand their practical implications before
implementing them for clients.

### Small Business Operations

Running our own successful business since 1996 gives us firsthand
insight into the challenges you face. We understand the importance of
cost-effective solutions that deliver real value and quick returns on
investment. This perspective helps us evaluate solutions not just
technically, but from a business value standpoint—ensuring that what
we propose makes practical sense for your specific situation.

### Modern Technology Integration

We continually evaluate and work with leading automation technologies,
including:

  - Low-code automation platforms
  - Generative AI and machine learning
  - Cloud-based workflow systems
  - Modern APIs and integration services

Our approach combines technical expertise with practical business
sense to create solutions that are both powerful and pragmatic. Before
deploying any new automation solution, we thoroughly test it in a
controlled environment, often using our own business operations as a
proving ground. This allows us to identify and resolve potential
issues before they affect our clients' operations.


