---
title: "MVP: Embedded Test Framework (ETF)"
author: John Sambrook
tags: [journal]
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/pc-bite.jpg
published: false
---

I would like Common Sense to have sources of income other than me
doing contract programming. To that end, I'm exploring the idea of
products and services that we might be able to create and provide to
customers.

I'm thinking that an embedded test framework (ETF) is an example of a
possible MVP (Minimum Viable Product). If we experience some success
with the ETF MVP, that will help to validate our direction. If we get
nothing even after doing a good job of promoting it, then we should
try to understand the source of the disconnect.

# ETF MVP Proposed Requirements

1. The scripting language is Python.

2. The ETF makes it easy to flash new firmware into the target and
   start it running.

3. The first versions of the ETF use GDB as the debugger; in the
   future, other debuggers may be supported.

4. Note that GDB supports Python:

   a. https://chatgpt.com/share/833fcc16-0909-4b91-9558-17e09e5841bc

   b. Ability to flash new code on the target

   c. Ability to set breakpoints on functions like assert()

   d. Can add Python functions to GDB

5. The ETF can interface with external instruments that provide a
   usable automation interface. The Saleae logic analyzer appears
   to provide such an interface, although I don't know how well-
   developed it is.

6. The ETF will also interface with a client application that can
   interact with the firmware under test. It is envisioned that ETF
   users will develop Python scripts that work with their client
   application.

5. A client could be a Python application, or it might be a compiled
   binary of some kind. The ETF will have a means to specify arguments
   to the client application to start it running.

6. The ETF will make it easy for Python test scripts to record data
   in a SQLite database.

   SQLlite databases are self-contained and yet are full-fledged
   databases that can be queried.

7. The ETF will make it easy to output results in JSON format when
   desired.

8. The ETF will make it easy to create and maintain "golden" results
   that can be used for comparisons while testing.

   Golden results are a relatively easy way to get standard data that
   can be updated as necessary and reused for testing as many times
   as desired.

9. The ETF will make it easy to work with a "simulated target" which
   is a software model (a simulator) of the actual firmware to be
   tested.

   Simulated targets are useful in that they allow the development
   team to learn about the device they are building before they have
   real hardware.

10. The ETF will be developed with a full set of self-tests and,
    perhaps, will be able to test all or part of itself with itself.

11. The ETF will be runnable from popular CI/CD pipelines. It will
    not duplicate that functionality within itself.

12. The ETF will have support for popular Python unit test packages.




